CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to PyVerse

---

We welcome contributions to **PyVerse**! Whether you're fixing bugs, adding new features, improving documentation, or enhancing existing projects, your contributions are highly valued. Please follow the guidelines below to contribute effectively to the project.

---

## How to Contribute

1. **Fork the Repository:**

   Click the "Fork" button on the top right of the repository page to create a copy of the repository under your GitHub account.

2. **Clone Your Fork:**

   Clone your forked repository to your local machine:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/PyVerse.git
   cd PyVerse
   ```

3. **Create a Branch:**

   Create a new branch for your changes:

   ```sh
   git checkout -b my-feature-branch
   ```

4. **Make Your Changes:**

   Implement your changes, whether it's adding a new project, improving existing features, fixing bugs, or updating documentation.

5. **Commit Your Changes:**

   Commit your changes with a descriptive commit message:

   ```sh
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add new feature/fix bug/update documentation"
   ```

6. **Push Your Branch:**

   Push your branch to your forked repository:

   ```sh
   git push origin my-feature-branch
   ```

7. **Open a Pull Request:**

   Navigate to the original repository on GitHub and open a pull request from your branch. Provide a detailed description of your changes and the reasons behind them.

---

## Guidelines

- **Code Style:**

  Adhere to the existing code style of the project. Ensure your code is clean, well-structured, and documented. Follow PEP 8 for Python code style guidelines.

- **Testing:**

  Ensure your changes do not break existing functionality. Run the test suite before submitting your pull request:

  ```sh
  pytest
  ```

  If you are adding a new feature, include tests to validate your changes.

- **Documentation:**

  Update relevant documentation to reflect your changes. This includes README files, project descriptions, and any new features or modifications.

- **Commit Messages:**

  Write clear and concise commit messages. Use the imperative mood in the subject line (e.g., "Fix issue" instead of "Fixed issue").

- **Pull Requests:**

  - Provide a clear and detailed description of the changes in your pull request.
  - Reference any related issues or discussions.
  - Be responsive to feedback and make adjustments as needed.

---

## Code of Conduct

This project is governed by a [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you agree to uphold this code and ensure a respectful and inclusive environment. Report any issues to [utsavsinghal26@gmail.com](mailto:utsavsinghal26@gmail.com).

---

## Contact

For questions, suggestions, or general inquiries, please reach out to us at [utsavsinghal26@gmail.com](mailto:utsavsinghal26@gmail.com).

Thank you for contributing to **PyVerse**!

Commit message:

Replaced: Contact section with Team section in Contributing.md file

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to PyVerse

---

We welcome contributions to **PyVerse**! Whether you're fixing bugs, adding new features, improving documentation, or enhancing existing projects, your contributions are highly valued. Please follow the guidelines below to contribute effectively to the project.

---

## How to Contribute

1. **Fork the Repository:**

   Click the "Fork" button on the top right of the repository page to create a copy of the repository under your GitHub account.

2. **Clone Your Fork:**

   Clone your forked repository to your local machine:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/PyVerse.git
   cd PyVerse
   ```

3. **Create a Branch:**

   Create a new branch for your changes:

   ```sh
   git checkout -b my-feature-branch
   ```

4. **Make Your Changes:**

   Implement your changes, whether it's adding a new project, improving existing features, fixing bugs, or updating documentation.

5. **Commit Your Changes:**

   Commit your changes with a descriptive commit message:

   ```sh
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add new feature/fix bug/update documentation"
   ```

6. **Push Your Branch:**

   Push your branch to your forked repository:

   ```sh
   git push origin my-feature-branch
   ```

7. **Open a Pull Request:**

   Navigate to the original repository on GitHub and open a pull request from your branch. Provide a detailed description of your changes and the reasons behind them.

---

## Guidelines

- **Code Style:**

  Adhere to the existing code style of the project. Ensure your code is clean, well-structured, and documented. Follow PEP 8 for Python code style guidelines.

- **Testing:**

  Ensure your changes do not break existing functionality. Run the test suite before submitting your pull request:

  ```sh
  pytest
  ```

  If you are adding a new feature, include tests to validate your changes.

- **Documentation:**

  Update relevant documentation to reflect your changes. This includes README files, project descriptions, and any new features or modifications.

- **Commit Messages:**

  Write clear and concise commit messages. Use the imperative mood in the subject line (e.g., "Fix issue" instead of "Fixed issue").

- **Pull Requests:**

  - Provide a clear and detailed description of the changes in your pull request.
  - Reference any related issues or discussions.
  - Be responsive to feedback and make adjustments as needed.

---

## Code of Conduct

This project is governed by a [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you agree to uphold this code and ensure a respectful and inclusive environment. Report any issues to [utsavsinghal26@gmail.com](mailto:utsavsinghal26@gmail.com).

---

## 👥 Team

| ![Utsav Singhal](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/119779889?v=4&s=80) |
|:--:|
| **Utsav Singhal** <br> <sub>Project Admin</sub> | 
| [![LinkedIn](https://img.icons8.com/fluency/32/000000/linkedin.png)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/utsavsinghal2604/) [![Gmail](https://img.icons8.com/fluency/32/000000/gmail.png)](mailto:utsavsinghal26@gmail.com)|

For questions, suggestions, or general inquiries, please feel free to reach out.

Thank you for contributing to **PyVerse**!
