README.md, before:

# PySnippets - A Python Package for Reusable Code Snippets

Welcome to **PySnippets**, a Python package that offers a collection of reusable code snippets designed to solve common programming challenges and perform everyday tasks. With this package, developers can easily integrate useful snippets directly into their projects, speeding up development while maintaining clarity and simplicity. Whether you're a beginner or an experienced developer, **PySnippets** provides a robust set of tools to enhance your workflow.

<!-- Added Hacktoberfest 2024 and GSSoC Extended 2024 banners -->
### This project is now OFFICIALLY accepted for

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SwanandD121/FeatherPerfect_fe/refs/heads/main/Untitled%20design.png" alt="GSSoC 2024 Extd" width="80%">
  <img src="https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/657543125190967316/1294560786114674748/Screenshot_2024-10-12_122347.png?ex=670b752f&is=670a23af&hm=26ddd7f41740b8b19ee4985e7568b3892091384b3b85e7165770a4b10f4d1050&" alt="Hacktoberfest 2024" width="80%">
</div>
<br>

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

---

## Features

- **Python Package**: Install and import snippets directly into your projects as a package.
- **Modular Code**: Snippets are designed to be easily integrated and modified for specific use cases.
- **Organized Library**: All snippets are categorized by functionality (e.g., string manipulation, file handling, data structures), ensuring quick access.
- **Beginner-Friendly**: Simple, clear code with explanations and examples to help developers of all levels.
- **Comprehensive Documentation**: Each snippet includes detailed descriptions, usage examples, and explanations of key concepts.
- **Unit Tests**: Each snippet comes with unit tests, ensuring its reliability and functionality.
- **Active Community**: Contributors are welcome to submit new snippets, fix bugs, or improve existing code, fostering a collaborative and open-source environment.

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) for cloning the repository or contributing.
- [Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/) to run the package and snippets.
- [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) for installing the **PySnippets** package.

### Installation

To install **PySnippets** as a Python package, follow these steps:

1. Install the package via pip (assuming the package is published on PyPI):
   ```bash
   pip install pysnippets
   ```

   If the package is still under development, you can install it directly from the GitHub repository:
   ```bash
   pip install git+https://github.com/UTSAVS26/PySnippets.git
   ```

2. Once installed, you can import and use snippets in your Python projects.

### Usage

After installing the package, you can start using the snippets in your project:

```python
# Example: Using a string manipulation snippet
from pysnippets.strings import reverse_string

reversed_str = reverse_string("hello")
print(reversed_str)  # Output: 'olleh'
```

Explore other categories and snippets, such as file handling, math utilities, and more, by navigating the package’s modules.

### Example Snippets

- **String Manipulation**: Functions like `reverse_string`, `capitalize_first`, etc.
- **File Handling**: Utilities for reading, writing, and managing files.
- **Data Structures**: Custom implementations of common data structures.

Check the full documentation for details on each snippet's functionality and usage examples.

---

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! You can help improve **PySnippets** by submitting new snippets, fixing bugs, or enhancing existing functionality.

### How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository on GitHub.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/my-feature
   ```
3. Write your code, along with unit tests for the new functionality.
4. Commit your changes and push them to your fork:
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/my-feature
   ```
5. Open a pull request on GitHub to merge your changes into the main repository.

### Adding Your Project

We also encourage users to add their own projects or larger contributions that build upon or extend **PySnippets**. Feel free to reach out or submit your project through a pull request.

### Reporting Issues

If you find any bugs or issues, please submit an issue on GitHub with detailed information about the problem and steps to reproduce it.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## Contact

For questions, suggestions, or feedback, feel free to contact the project maintainer:

- **Name**: Utsav Singhal
- **Email**: utsavsinghal26@gmail.com

---

## 👀 Our Contributors

- We extend our heartfelt gratitude for your invaluable contribution to our project! Your efforts play a pivotal role in elevating PySnippets to greater heights.
- Make sure you show some love by giving ⭐ to our repository.

<div align="center">

  <a href="https://github.com/UTSAVS26/PySnippets">
    <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=UTSAVS26/PySnippets&&max=1000" />
  </a>
</div>

---

## Acknowledgments

A special thanks to all contributors and the open-source community for their support and valuable contributions to this project!

---

Happy coding! 🚀

Commit message:

Replaced the Contact section with Team Section

README.md, after:

# PySnippets - A Python Package for Reusable Code Snippets

Welcome to **PySnippets**, a Python package that offers a collection of reusable code snippets designed to solve common programming challenges and perform everyday tasks. With this package, developers can easily integrate useful snippets directly into their projects, speeding up development while maintaining clarity and simplicity. Whether you're a beginner or an experienced developer, **PySnippets** provides a robust set of tools to enhance your workflow.

<!-- Added Hacktoberfest 2024 and GSSoC Extended 2024 banners -->
### This project is now OFFICIALLY accepted for

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SwanandD121/FeatherPerfect_fe/refs/heads/main/Untitled%20design.png" alt="GSSoC 2024 Extd" width="80%">
  <img src="https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/657543125190967316/1294560786114674748/Screenshot_2024-10-12_122347.png?ex=670b752f&is=670a23af&hm=26ddd7f41740b8b19ee4985e7568b3892091384b3b85e7165770a4b10f4d1050&" alt="Hacktoberfest 2024" width="80%">
</div>
<br>

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

---

## Features

- **Python Package**: Install and import snippets directly into your projects as a package.
- **Modular Code**: Snippets are designed to be easily integrated and modified for specific use cases.
- **Organized Library**: All snippets are categorized by functionality (e.g., string manipulation, file handling, data structures), ensuring quick access.
- **Beginner-Friendly**: Simple, clear code with explanations and examples to help developers of all levels.
- **Comprehensive Documentation**: Each snippet includes detailed descriptions, usage examples, and explanations of key concepts.
- **Unit Tests**: Each snippet comes with unit tests, ensuring its reliability and functionality.
- **Active Community**: Contributors are welcome to submit new snippets, fix bugs, or improve existing code, fostering a collaborative and open-source environment.

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) for cloning the repository or contributing.
- [Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/) to run the package and snippets.
- [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) for installing the **PySnippets** package.

### Installation

To install **PySnippets** as a Python package, follow these steps:

1. Install the package via pip (assuming the package is published on PyPI):
   ```bash
   pip install pysnippets
   ```

   If the package is still under development, you can install it directly from the GitHub repository:
   ```bash
   pip install git+https://github.com/UTSAVS26/PySnippets.git
   ```

2. Once installed, you can import and use snippets in your Python projects.

### Usage

After installing the package, you can start using the snippets in your project:

```python
# Example: Using a string manipulation snippet
from pysnippets.strings import reverse_string

reversed_str = reverse_string("hello")
print(reversed_str)  # Output: 'olleh'
```

Explore other categories and snippets, such as file handling, math utilities, and more, by navigating the package’s modules.

### Example Snippets

- **String Manipulation**: Functions like `reverse_string`, `capitalize_first`, etc.
- **File Handling**: Utilities for reading, writing, and managing files.
- **Data Structures**: Custom implementations of common data structures.

Check the full documentation for details on each snippet's functionality and usage examples.

---

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! You can help improve **PySnippets** by submitting new snippets, fixing bugs, or enhancing existing functionality.

### How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository on GitHub.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/my-feature
   ```
3. Write your code, along with unit tests for the new functionality.
4. Commit your changes and push them to your fork:
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/my-feature
   ```
5. Open a pull request on GitHub to merge your changes into the main repository.

### Adding Your Project

We also encourage users to add their own projects or larger contributions that build upon or extend **PySnippets**. Feel free to reach out or submit your project through a pull request.

### Reporting Issues

If you find any bugs or issues, please submit an issue on GitHub with detailed information about the problem and steps to reproduce it.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 👥 Team

| ![UTSAV SINGHAL](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/119779889?v=4&s=80) |
|:--:|
| **UTSAV SINGHAL** <br> <sub>Project Admin</sub> | 
| [![LinkedIn](https://img.icons8.com/fluency/32/000000/linkedin.png)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/utsavsinghal2604/) |

For any inquiries or feedback, please contact. Happy Contributing 🫡

---

## 👀 Our Contributors

- We extend our heartfelt gratitude for your invaluable contribution to our project! Your efforts play a pivotal role in elevating PySnippets to greater heights.
- Make sure you show some love by giving ⭐ to our repository.

<div align="center">

  <a href="https://github.com/UTSAVS26/PySnippets">
    <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=UTSAVS26/PySnippets&&max=1000" />
  </a>
</div>

---

## Acknowledgments

A special thanks to all contributors and the open-source community for their support and valuable contributions to this project!

---

Happy coding! 🚀
